## CLion Setup for x86_64 Development

(14-12-2024)
To achieve proper syntax support and smooth development in CLion for the x86_64 architecture, follow these steps:

1. **Custom Toolchain Setup**:
    - Navigate to `Build | Execution | Deployment -> Toolchains`.
    - Add a new toolchain with the following settings:
        - **Name**: `alkOS`
        - **CMake**: `/bin/cmake` (use local, latest version).
        - **Build Tool**: CLion should detect `ninja` automatically (if installed).
        - **C Compiler**: Provide the path to your cross-compiler, e.g., `{absolutePathToAlkos}/AlkOS/tools/bin/x86_64-elf-gcc`.
        - **C++ Compiler**: Provide the path to your cross C++ compiler, e.g., `{absolutePathToAlkos}/AlkOS/tools/bin/x86_64-elf-g++`.
        - **Debugger**: Use the bundled GDB

2. **CMake Profile Configuration**:
    - Go to `Build | Execution | Deployment -> CMake`.
    - Create custom profiles for both `Debug` and `Release` configurations. Use the following settings:
        - **Name**: For example, `Debug x86_64-elf` or `Release x86_64-elf`.
        - **Build Type**: Set to `Debug` or `Release`, depending on the profile.
        - **Toolchain**: Select the previously created `alkOS` toolchain.
        - **Generator**: Choose `Unix Makefiles`.
        - **CMake Options**: Add the following:
          ```bash
          -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=/home/wookie/Projects/AlkOS/alkos/toolchains/x86_64-elf-toolchain.cmake
          ```
        - **Build Directory**: Use descriptive directories, such as `cmake-build-debug-x86_64-elf`.
        - **Build Options**: For example, set `-- -j $(nproc)` to enable parallel builds with the number of threads equal to the CPU logical cores.

### Key Notes:
- It is essential to specify the `-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` flag pointing to your custom toolchain file. This ensures the build system uses the correct cross-compilation tools.
- Always select `Unix Makefiles` as the generator for proper compatibility with this setup.